I reviewed Nathan Loveless and Erika Ito's Paper. Therefore, I am going to refer them as Nathan and Erika in this lab

[Part 1]
1. + Nathan: It seemed like he was in hurry to write a paper. However, if he add some more information    and reinforce his justification, it would be great paper. 
   + Erika: Her paper was really great. Well constructured and written. 

2. + Nathan: Finding out whether the dominant species in the ecosystem would contribute to the       mechanism of extinction and how do they achieve this.
   + Erika: How different pH level of ocean would affect on carbonate precipitation and extinction rate    of foraminifera (during PETM?) 

3. + Nathan: His hypothesis was okay. I found it very novel and coherent. It was also testable and       scientific/socially relevant (especially socially relevant).
   + Erika: Hypothesis itself is pretty much testable and scientifically/socially relevant. However,       problem of her hypothesis is that it is very not coherent. It was very confusing for me to know         where her paper is going. 

4. + Nathan: He needed to reinforce his significance. Even though his idea was novel, I did not think    that his topic was valid. It would be better if he gave me more explanations to convince me.
   + Erika: She needed to decide what topic she wanted to write for her paper. She lost her way between    whether picking foram or carbonate precipitation as her topic.

5. + Nathan: I gave him to choose specific cases of his hypothesis. I suggested him to research on    theropods (since his research was focusing on K/Pg extinction) because top-level predators are    usually small in number and abnormally large number of top-level predators can distrub the    ecosystem. 
   + Erika: I told her to be clear with her hypothesis. I suggested that she could use both foram and      carbonate precipitation for her paper since two topics are related.

6. + Nathan: It seemed to have decent amount of citations but it needs more background research. I    wanted to see the real life example of one species, except Homo spiens, actually disturb the    ecosystem and lead to the large-scale extinction. 
   + Erika: She seemed to provide decent amount of background information. However, I felt like she       mentioned about PETM as her research period. If she did, she needed little more information about       PETM and her reserach topic.  

[Part 2]
1. + Nathan: No, he did not clearly understand hypothesis. It seemed like my hypothesis is not focused       and he suggested me to narrow down into one hypothesis. I can make my hypothesis better by making      it more specific.
   + Erika: I think she understood my hypothesis. She mentioned that very clear and narrow thesis in my    paper. 
    
2. + Nathan: I think he felt my project was scientifically or socially relevant. We both chose topic       related to the extinction that we understood the relevance of our topic in scientific or social way     in some degree.  
   + Erika: She didn't mention about it but she recommended me to explain why reconstructing climate is    important of interest. I think I can improve my scientific/social relevance of my paper by doing    this.

3. + Nathan: Yes, he approved my proposed analytical methods. He didn't say anything specific rather       than looking for specific characters to form a clear hypothesis. I might focus on certain asepct of     dinosaurs to narrow down my hypothesis. 
   + Erika: She approved my proposal analytical methods but she gave me some suggestions alongside her    approval. She also mentioned about narrowing down into specific character than encompassing overall    characteristics. Addition to that, she suggested me to talk about how am I going to present the data    to reflect morphological changes in dinosaurs over time. 

4. + Nathan: Honestly, I was expecting a lot worse but he gave me somewhat generous evaluation than I    did. I think he's review was helpful and did not require anything more to improve it.
   + Erika: I think she gave me adequate and thorough job in her review. I don't expect more from her    review.

5. + Nathan: I think I need to narrow down my hypothesis to make my paper's direction more clear.Also I    need to fix some word problems.
   + Erika: I think I need to narrow down into specific traits of dinosaurs to make paper more focused.    Also, I need to add some information in methods (about importance of researching climate change and    telling how am I going to present data). I need to fix some word issues, too. 
   