Sungyoon Hong
12th Writing Assignment

The Red Queen and the Court Jester: Species Diversity and the Role of Biotic and Abiotic Factors Through Time

[Article Summary]
In this paper, Benton is discussing The Red Queen and the Court Jester Theory and apply them to the species diversity. The Red Queen Theory states that biotic factors induce the evolution and diversity. The Court Jester theory, on the other hand, mentions about the importance of physical environment change in evolution and diversity. To study diversification throughout time, Benton suggests two models: saturation/equilibrium model and expansion model. The author states that each has their own limitations and this can be resolved by adequate sampling. For second part of the paper, he mentions about how large scale changes can bring species diversity. He suggest geographic, tectonic history, or increased specialization number can help increasing diversity over time. Phylogenetic approach of diversity is another major point of this paper. However, he mentions that, this phylogenetic approaches are somewhat incomplete most of time so that equal-rate Markov model is applied to resolve this problem. Benton argues that, by studying phylogenetic models, it is able to find out whether the Red Queen or Court Jester worldview is more important. Also, the author represents resource-use hypothesis test by comparing sister taxa. By studying these sister taxas, he aruge that, we are able to know that the role of climate and tectonic events are important.  

[Things I Like About This Paper]
Trying to figure out the diversity using the concept of the Red Queen and Court Jester is very interesting approach for me. I know Benton is land vertebrate paleontologists. So, this is like a first paleobiological article I read mostly focus about terrestrial realm. He gives plenty of examples for his arguements and they are well supported by the citation and well-organized statements. Also, it was very fascinating for me to solve diversity problem in the context of phylogenetics since, when I studied marine invertebrates, phylogenetics were less used (or at least in this class). I learned how useful phylogenetics to understand how abiotic factors are important in species diversity throughout time. 

[Things I Dislike About This Paper]
It is a great paper but there's some minor issues for me. First one is that I think it is redundant for Benton to mention about the Red Queen Theory and Court Jester Theory. I mean it is very clever for him to bring this concept but, simply, they are more sophisticated terms of biotic and abiotic influence on the species diversity, I think. Also, in this review paper, I think Benton lost some objectivity in his direction. One thing I point out is that it seemed like Benton is giving more importance on the Court Jester Theory than Red Queen Theory in his arguement. I mean this would be true in some case but it would be better paper if Benton discuss Red Queen Theory little bit more in his paper. Because of this problem, I felt kinda confused after I read the paper because I didn't know he's arguing or reviewing the subject.  

[Evaluate Figure and Graph]
Some figures are table are helpful however it would be better if this paper has a figure about showing table about phylogenetic analysis. I mean, jsut with text, it is okay however it would be helpful to understand more if this paper has figure to summarize the texts. 