Sungyoon Hong
5th Writing Assignment

Global Biodiversity Scenarios for the Year 2100 by Sala et al., (2000)

[Article Summary]
This paper is discussing how the drivers of environment change impact on global biodiversity in each biomes of the earth to predict the global biodiversity in 2100. The authors divide environment change drivers into 5 categories (land use, climate change, nitrogen deposition, biotic exchange, and level of atmospheric CO2) and these drivers are calculated with three different scenarios: (i) each driver do not interact each other, (ii) antagonistic interaction, and (iii) synergistic interaction. Global biomes are represented as 10 major terrestrial biomes and 2 freshwater ecosystems (river and stream) and each biomes show different sensitivity to different environment change drivers. According to the Sala et al., land use is expected to show the greatest effect and, especially, southern temperate forest and tropical biomes are largely impacted by it. Also, lakes and streams are also largely impacted by the land use. Global climate change follow after land use and biomes located in higher latitudes (boreal, alpine, and arctic) regions are largely impacted by this. Nitrogen deposition, biotic exchange and level of atmospheric CO2 follow respectively. However, biotic exchange was very significant factor in freshwater ecosystem, besides the land use, because of their isolated geography. In large scale of biodiversity change, grassland and Mediterranean ecosystem would expect to show the largest amount of change since these biomes are affected by every drives in some amount. In contrast, biomes located in the Northern hemispheres are thought to be the least change since most of lands are already exploited by humans. Even though this prediction is based on three different scenarios, Sala et al., could not answer which one is the most dominant scenario. The authors mentioned that synergistic interaction between these drivers would weaken the force of each driver and make it harder to distinguish which one is the most significant. Thus, they conclude that future scenario will be the intermediate form between synergistic and no-interaction scenario but further understanding between these drivers should be necessary to clarify this conclusion. Moreover, the authors state the uncertainty about the magnitude and regional variation of these drivers. Since both the magnitude and regional variation of these drivers are somewhat unpredictable, Sala et al., mention that this is just a scenario, not prediction of future biodiversity. 

[Thing I Liked About This Paper]
The paper is fairly well organized and detail. The authors go over which drivers and discuss how these drivers effect on each terrestrial biome. The detail of this paper was very satisfying for me because it was not only easier for me to understand and read the paper but also easier to link between these drivers and biome changes in future. And detailed explanation of each drivers are somewhat thought provoking, too. It was well known that land use and climate change (two of the most dominant drivers) are very significant environment change drivers. However, it is somewhat interesting for me to think that some ecosystems are less affected by the others. Maybe this fact would lead to the different strategies of conservation between different biomes in the future. Moreover, it was surprising that the biomes which are inhabited by the humans go through the most biodiversity in the future. Qualitative evidence of how human-induced environmental change would give awareness to the people and eventually lead to the global policy of environmental protection.

[Thing I Disliked About This Paper]
One thing I disliked about this paper was that it was trying to generalize the natural phenomenon. I understand how chaotic the nature is and how people try to find pattern within it. However, in my opinion, haste generalization would lead to haste (or even wrong) conclusion to the people. In this paper, I understand how the authors try to represent their opinion by choosing the most clearest and easiest way of conclusion: the scenario of none of these drivers interact each other and impact differently in different biomes. In brief view, this seems very plausible and simple. However, as the authors mention in the uncertainties, natural process is not that simple and easy. For example, atmospheric CO2, nitrogen deposition, and global climate change are very closely related and, even though individual drivers would impact each biomes differently, the synergistic interaction of this three would bring wider impacts on the global scale. The authors should mention the importance of synergistic approach of drivers interaction to give more deeper understanding to the readers.

[Graph and Figure Evaluation]
I very liked the tables and figures in this paper. Honestly, I felt like reading the entire words would not be necessary since the tables and figures already summarizes the most aspects about this paper. They are clear and concise. Very easy to understand. 