9th Writing Assignment
Sungyoon Hong

Decoupling taxonomic and ecologic severity of mass extinctions by Droser et al. (2000)

[Article Summary]
Mass extinction events are one of the most significant biological events in the earth's history. Like butcher's knife, it kills off mass amount of organisms blindly and recklessly. Paleontologist named Jack Sepkoski collected marine fossil data around 1980s and plotted out global diversity graph throughout time. In this graph, he found out that there are five mass extinctions occurred during Phanerozoic. However, this plot was focused on how many taxonomic losses are presented and did not consider about environmental factors within it. In this article, Droser et al. are trying to find out relationship betweent taxonomic and ecologic severity of mass extinction. Authors compared End-Ordovician and End-Devonian mass extinction since these two mass extinctions show almost similar amount of family loss and paleozoic-fauna-dominated marine organism casualties. For ecologic severity of mass extinction, Droser et al., divided these levels into four levels, first level is the most severe one (entire ecosystem is affected by the extinction) and forth level is the least severe one (only community level affected by the extinction). In End-Ordovician extinction, the authors discovered that many taxonomic loss (2nd biggest mass extinction after End-Permian extinction) was happened during this extinction but many of these taxons returned immediately after the extinction. Moreover, not much of ecologic change was observed despite the huge taxonomic loss which brought third to forth level of paleoecological change. On the other hand, End-Devonian extinction showed less taxonomic loss than End-Ordovican extinction, the environmental damage was much severe. During this extinction, most of the reef structures are decimated that there were sudden fauna-group (modern to paleozoic) reverse happened during the recovery period (deep water dwelling paleozoic fauna temporarily dominated the shallow water facies). This huge ecological loss can level up to the second level of paleoecological change. From this result, Droser et al., drew conclusion that the degree of taxonomic loss is not related to the ecological severity of the mass extinction. The authors explained that loss of dominant  taxa (having very high biomass) and keystone species (low biomass, but relatively large ecologic impact) can lead to the severe ecological change. During End-Devonian extinction, stromatoporoid sponges are significantly impacted. Since stromatoporoid sponges are one of the important reef builders during Silurian-Devonian, loss of large amount of stromatoporoid sponges reduced the amount of global reefs and also reduced the number of another significant reef builder, tabulate corals, since tabulate corals are usually growing in the spaces where stromatoporoid sponges created. Therefore, in this research, Droser et al., concluded that not only taxonomic and ecologic severity of mass extinctions are unrelated but also importance of dominant taxon and keystone species. They argue that, to conserve the ecosystem, it is extremely important to protect the dominant taxon and keystone species since loss of these taxons would very negatively impact on the ecosystem.

[What I Liked about Article]
This article, as short it is, is very clear and easy to read. As a foreigner, still I have hard time reading scholastic articles sometimes. However, this paper was very easy to read and understand the concept and the messages authors try to convey. Also, I think it is very sensational and refreshing paper which greatly emphasizes the importance of dominant taxons & keystone species from researching the pass mass extinctions. These days, even though public awareness of environmental protection is highly improved than before, people tend to protect organisms which they think significant. In result, some organisms are indeed protected, but many of them are not. This paper would help many groups of people. For scientists, it would give them more motivation to study modern ecosystem widely and meticulously to figure out precise organismal relationship within each ecosystems. For environmental protectors, it would give them wider view of looking at organisms and understanding ecosystem. Moreover, this paper is very think provoking. This type of analysis could be applied to the other extinction events throughout time. Also, deeper analysis of biology of dominant taxon and keystone species would give finer understanding of the paleoecosystem and, nature and pattern of the mass extinction.

[What I Disliked about Article]
I will be honest. I was really enjoying reading this article that it was so hard for me to find out the dislike points about this article. One thing caught my eyes, nevertheless, is that Droser et al. used Sepkoski's curve. Sepkoski's diversity curve seemed to be widely used among diversity-studying paleontologists. However, his graph is not sample standardized and it is prone to show the species-area effect. This means that Sepkoski's curve would look different if sample standardization is applied to his graph. Despite this weakness, his curve is, still, best curve to represent global diversity throughout time with already-collected speciemens. Another minor point I dislike about this paper is that, the authors did not point out how severe was stromatoporoid sponges extinction during End-Ordovician Extinction. They mentioned that, during the End-Devonian, almost of half of the stromatoporoid sponges are extinct. However, if they do not provide actual number of stromatoporoid extinction, it is somewhat hard for me to clearly imagine how severe was the extinction of stromatoporoid affected the End-Devonian extinction ecologically. 

[Evaluating Figures and Graphs]
Figures and tables are very useful and helpful. They make it easier to understand the paper and convey important points of the paper.  
