Sungyoon Hong
10th Writing Assignment

Origination, extinction, and mass depletions of marine diversity by Bambach et al. (2004)

[Article Summary]
Mass extinction is fairly recent topic in paleontological world and it is one of the most heavily discussed topic in nowadays due to the 6th mass extinction which we are going through during 21st century. Renowned Jack Sepkoski's paper showed that there are five periods during Phanerozoic showed great loss in diversity. Scientists call in "big-five" mass extinctions which show pronounced extinction rate compared to the background extinction rate. In this paper, Bambach et al. are trying to re-evaluate the mass extinction and try to look at mass extinctions in a way of diversity delpetions. The authors, firstly, use statistical methods to figure out mass extinctions from background extinctions. In this process, they rule out Cambrian and Early Ordovician from their data since they show irregularly high turnover rate than rest of the Phanerozoic eon. From their data, they found out there are five major extinction events just like Sepkoski's data. However, after they compare the origination rates and extinction rates for these "big-five" extinctions, the authors discovered that the way extinction deplete the diversity is different. For End-Ordovician, End-Permian, and End-Cretaceous extinction, Bambach et al., suggest that extinction rates are way higher compare to the origination rate. On the other hand, for End-Devonian and End-Triassic extinction, origination rate is very low compare to the normal extinction rate. Thus, the authors claim that lower origination rate can also lead to the mass extinction even though extinction rate is slightly higher than noraml background extinction rate. However, the authors did not provide the mechanism why origination rate is lower for these two periods. Bambach et al., state that this pattern is not largely related to the preservational bias since they suggest that rock record failure is not capable of making fluctuation in global diviersity.  

[What I Liked About Paper]
I found this paper very intellectually refreshing since it was first paper evaluating the intensity of extinctions after Sepkoski's diversity paper. The authors used various statistical techniques to distinguish mass extinctions out from the background extinctions. Moreover, the way they interpret mass extinctions are very interesting to me because, most of the time, mass extinctions are mostly focused on how many taxons they lost, not other aspects. Thus, this paper strongly suggests that, to study extinction, seeing things in multiple-dimension is very important to fully understand the event. This multi-dimensional approach is very intellectually stimulating to me that it gives me a lot of things to think about mass extinction.

[What I Disliked About Paper]
Even though I found this paper very intellectually stimulating, I found some aspects are lack in this paper. One thing is that this paper does not explain enough amount of origination compare to the amount of extinction. Since this paper emphasizes the importance of both origination and extinction, it would be better if they give more information about origination. Also another thing gets me is that they are still using Sepkoski's paper. Despite the importance of Sepkoski's data, it is still not sample standardized and this would expose the data to the species-area affect. If sample standardization is applied to the Sepkoski's data, this MIGHT create different results. 

[Evaluate Figures and Graphs]
For me, figures and graphs are very important part of this paper. Since texts can be long and hard to understand sometimes, the presence of graphs and figures give me easier time to understand the information which authors try to convey in the paper. 